# Object Oriented Programming Tutorial
Object oriented programming has four different base principles: encapsulation, abstraction, inheritance, and 
polymorphism.  This can all be explained in depth and overly complicated.  This is a quick and concise tutorial
into what object oriented programming really is.
## Encapsulation
Encapsulation can be looked at as protecting an object in object oriented programming.  Encapsulation is the way in which an object is able to stay the same and nothing can call on it to change its base state.  Through this the methods can be used by other objects calling on the methods, but the objects can not change the state of that object.  This is necessary to keep the code and the objects state private.  You can have private variables and methods within the object, and this can not be changed by other methods.  What they can do is defined in the public methods, which can invoke the private methods, but can not change them
## Abstraction
Abstraction is connected to encapsulation.  Programs can get very complicated and large when dealing with object-oriented programming.  Abstraction has the goal of eliminating the problem of these large programs and codebases.  When abstraction is applied you only have each of your objects expose one high-level mechanism.  One example of this is having an object for each piece of a car, then the overall car object.  The mechanism should not be complicated, and it helps when it does not change over time, set in stone type of mechanism.  Functions on your computer are very complicated, but can be very simple for you.  Even after say a windows update, your actions do not often change, this is you using abstraction.
## Inheritance
An issue you may run into a lot with object-oriented programming is that many objects will be very similar, but not the same.  For this reason you need to create two different objects, which may end up adding on lots of uneccessary work for you.  Inheritance is the fix for this, you can reuse commonalities and extra the differences into a separate class.  There are child classes that are derived from a parent class, forming a hierarchy.  The child class reuses all of the parent class, then implements things that are unique to itself.  This sames time and effort, reusing code is one of the important parts of becoming a successful programmer. 
## Polymorphism
Polymorphism is a vital part of object-oriented programming because of how inheritance works.  You may think that when a parent and child element have methods called the same thing, but are different in a certain way, that the program may not choose the right method.  That is where polymorphism comes in, it uses hints about the classes to choose the right method based on the parameters passed.  A good example is if we have a shape class, and the child elements are circle, square, and triangle.  There could be a basic function in shape, but then finding lets say the area it is very different for each specific child shape.
